So as BHP is a service side language we need to run it on a web server.
We can't just use the text editor and the browser like we have for HCM El CSX and JavaScript and J.
Query.
So if you haven't set up your free web hosting yet then jump to the Web hosting setup section and go
through the process to do that.
Well done.
Great.
Okay.
So now you should be able to go to Fire FTB and to connect to your website and connect to your Web site.
And that's what I've done here.
So I'm on complete web developer course dot com slash content.
There's my previous sections.
This is our new section.
So I'm going to create a directory and we'll call this six dash BHP so that our next section missing
out WordPress because we didn't save anything on this section for that and then I'm going to double
click to go into six dash BHP and then I'm going to create a file and I'm going to call this index top
BHP so remember the dot BHP extension means that we'll be able to run BHP scripts on this file if we
had to CML then it won't recognize the BHP by default and I'll show you in a minute why we use index
top BHP rather than any other name.
There's a particular advantage to using that file name so then I'm going to right click or control click
and open and that will open up index stop BHP in brackets.
It should open up in your chosen text editor.
If you've set that up as instructed in the hosting setup section.
All right.
So just to check that everything's connected and working I'm going to have just a simple not quite a
Hello World.
We're not there yet but just some text and then I'm going to go over in my browser and open that up.
So remember this was complete web developer called dot com slash content slash six dash P HP and then
index dot P. HP.
So if we jumped to there we should get Hi there.
Fantastic.
Now's the time to show you why this index stop BHP file is a good file name and that's if we get rid
of the file name completely and reload that you can see we still get that content and that's because
the index file name by default displays if there's no file name at all.
So if you want your Web site to display a complete web developer course dot com slash blog for example
then if you called your main file indexed top BHP then that would just work.
It works as well for indexed or HDL.
So generally the main page of the home page of your site will be called index dot BHP or HDL.
If you're not using BHP so that's why we use index top BHP.
You can of course use a different name if you like but we'll stick with our index.
And now then it's time to run our first bit of BHP so remember with JavaScript we had to use the script
tag with a type of text slash javascript and then inside our script tags was where we put all our javascript.
So this was an indication that we were going to start some javascript.
We have a similar setup for PSP but instead of using script tags we use the less than symbol and then
a question mark and then BHP and that's the the universal symbol for right we're gonna start writing
some BHP code now and then when we're done writing our BHP code we use a question mark and a greater
than sign.
So this means start BHP and this means end BHP one of the most common mistakes I see early programmers
making is putting text or HDMI all inside these HP tags and that won't work.
So you need to put your HMO outside of those tax not inside them.
OK.
So how do we get Hallowell to appear in BHP.
Of course if we try and do something like that that's not valid BHP.
So we'll get a nasty error of some sort of 500 error in this case or occasionally if you've got an error
the script just won't run and you'll get a blank page.
So if we want to display hello world we have to give the page code an instruction to print it.
And the function for that NPA HP is echo so echo essentially means display on the page you could imagine
it being an echo in from the script to the user's page and then we put the thing that we want to echo
in quotes like that.
And unlike javascript BHP insists on semicolons if you don't put a semicolon at the end of your line
it won't run.
So you have to put semicolons.
That then is your first line of valid BHP.
Let's just have a look.
Excellent.
There we go.
So that's your Hallowell then BHP.
And essentially anytime you want to display some HDMI or text using BHP used echo and then surround
what you want to display in quotes.
All right.
So we're now going to go on and look at the key programming constructs in HP starting with variables.
But just before we do that I'm going to show you one very important thing when you're learning BHP and
that's how to display error messages.
So if for example I forget the double quote at the end of hello world and we try to run the script we'll
get a server error.
So just like with JavaScript it won't run the code at all.
If you've got a big bunch of code it can then be quite tricky to work out.
The error is and to do that we have to create a new file.
So go back to fire FTB and then control or right click and create file and this new file is going to
be called P HP dot any.
So it's a slightly different kind of file it's not a BHP file it's in any file.
So essentially it contains the initialization options for BHP.
So when HP runs your script we can put various options in the HP dot any file and then we open that
up in the usual way and we want to set two variables here.
The first one is error underscore reporting and we want to set that equal to e underscore pull and that
essentially says we want to report on all types of errors and we don't put a semicolon at the end of
the line here because we're not writing normal BHP.
We're writing dot any code doesn't require the semicolon.
Then the other variable we want to set is display underscore errors and we want to set that equal to
on so those two variables combined will allow us to see the errors on our script when we run it.
I should say that although it's a very good idea to display errors when you're developing a site it's
a very bad idea to display errors on a site which is being used in production because if something goes
wrong on your site hackers might be able to use the error messages to get access to your database or
your file system or something secure they feel free to turn Arizona while you're developing but then
remember to turn them off again when your site is done and it's out in the wild.
Okay so we don't need to edit that anymore so I'm just gonna close that down and then let's put an error
into our code and see what happens now.
So it doesn't look beautiful but it's definitely better than the 500 error that we had before and it's
actually reasonably precise.
We've got a pass error so the script was unable to be passed that is understood by the computer.
And we've got a syntax error unexpected end of file expected variable or this or that on line 6.
Often this variable this message Sorry won't be particularly useful.
Sometimes it will.
Is really useful is the line number although it's not quite as useful as you might think because you
might be slightly confused here it says the error is on line 6 which is here but we can clearly see
the error is on line 3.
Now the reason it's coming up with the error on line 6 is because we haven't actually got an error as
yet here because what we could do is close the quotes down there and if we did that everything would
be fine let's have a look you see we just get the semicolon as part of our code which is echoed.
So the error doesn't actually appear until we try and P HP which we do on line 6 and it says wait a
minute we can't NPA HP because we haven't closed this quote here so don't necessarily spend ages scouring
the particular line that the compiler gives you the error message on because it might be that the error
is on the line before that line or maybe even one or two lines before that line depending on how your
code is set up.
So that's a bit of a warning for you but generally a message like this is going to be much more useful
than the just plain 500 error as we saw beforehand.
So I definitely recommend setting up error reporting as you're developing your site and definitely as
you're learning HP as well because it'll help you with the challenges and you inevitably make mistakes.
It will show you at least reasonably accurately where you've gone wrong.
All right.
So now we're set up and running with BHP showing us a nice error messages.
We're now going to work our way through the basic programming constructs in BHP starting in the next
video with variables.